# v1.19


# Apache Flink Documentation#


### Try Flink#


If you’re interested in playing around with Flink, try one of our tutorials:

* Fraud Detection with the DataStream API
* Real Time Reporting with the Table API
* Intro to PyFlink
* Flink Operations Playground

### Learn Flink#

* 
To dive in deeper, the Hands-on Training includes a set of lessons and exercises that provide a step-by-step introduction to Flink.

* 
The Concepts section explains what you need to know about Flink before exploring the reference documentation.


To dive in deeper, the Hands-on Training includes a set of lessons and exercises that provide a step-by-step introduction to Flink.


The Concepts section explains what you need to know about Flink before exploring the reference documentation.


### Get Help with Flink#


If you get stuck, check out our community support resources. In particular, Apache Flink’s user mailing list is consistently ranked as one of the most active of any Apache project, and is a great way to get help quickly.


### Explore Flink#


The reference documentation covers all the details. Some starting points:

* DataStream API
* Table API & SQL
* Stateful Functions
* Configuration
* Rest API
* CLI

### Deploy Flink#


Before putting your Flink job into production, read the Production Readiness Checklist.
For an overview of possible deployment targets, see Clusters and Deployments.


### Upgrade Flink#


Release notes cover important changes between Flink versions. Please read them carefully if you plan to upgrade your Flink setup.


See the release notes for
Flink 1.19,
Flink 1.18,
Flink 1.17,
Flink 1.16,
Flink 1.15,
Flink 1.14,
Flink 1.13,
Flink 1.12,
Flink 1.11,
Flink 1.10,
Flink 1.9,
Flink 1.8, or
Flink 1.7.
